Tools are objects that a Humanoid object can equip. For players, they are stored in a Backpack object parented to a Player object. In-game, players may have multiple tools which appear as icons at the bottom of the screen. Equipping a tool moves it from the Backpack and into a player's character model in the Workspace. By default, tools are held in the right hand and have a handle in them, which is a Part named "Handle" inside (though one is not required if RequiresHandle is off). Tools that are to be provided to (re)spawning players ought to be stored in the StarterPack.

On desktop, pressing a number key (1, 2, 3...) will equip a tool. Equipped tools can be dropped into the Workspace by pressing Backspace. It's recommended that you turn CanBeDropped off so it is not possible to drop a tool, die, respawn and drop again to duplicate tools. On gamepads, LB and RB buttons will equip tools. You can disable activation via left click (or right trigger on gamepad) by setting ManualActivationOnly on. Doing so requires that you call Activate yourself through some sort of other user input.

Tools are not the only way to capture user input. You can also use ContextActionService, UserInputService or GetMouse. If you need a Tool to have multiple actions, such as pressing a key while the Tool is equipped, you should use ContextActionService's BindAction and UnbindAction in the Equipped and Unequipped events, respectively. Use a LocalScript send these actions to the server via a RemoteFunction inside the Tool.