The ContextActionService is a game service that allows a game to bind user input to contextual actions, or actions that are only enabled under some condition or period of time. For example, allowing a player to open a door only while close by. In code, an action is simply a string (the name of the action) used by the service to differentiate between unique actions. The string is provided to BindAction and UnbindAction, among other member functions. If two actions are bound to the same input, the most recent takes priority. When the most recent action is unbound, the one bound before that takes control again.

You can inspect the currently bound actions in the developer console under the "Action Bindings" tab. You'll also see bindings from the Roblox engine too. This is useful in checking if your actions are binding/unbinding at the correct times, or if some other action is stealing input from your actions. For exmaple, if you are attempting to bind WASD, it may be the case that character movement scripts is binding over those same keys.

ContextActionService is especially useful for supporting keyboard-less players, in which on-screen touch buttons can be used in place of key presses. The buttons will display only when the action is bound, and the position, text and/or images of these buttons can be configured through this service.

It's better to use ContextActionService's BindAction than UserInputService's InputBegan for most cases. For example, if you want to use the `R` key to reload a weapon while it is equipped, the player might type "roblox is fun" in chat or otherwise use the `R` key for something else. The weapon could reload when the player didn't mean to! If you instead use BindAction and UnbindAction when the weapon is equipped/unequipped, ContextActionService will make sure that `R` key presses trigger the reload action only when it is the most recently bound action.
@rbxts client